---
title: "How DeSantis's Draconian Arts Funding Cuts Are Impacting Northeast Florida Theaters"
published: true
date: 2024-07-02T15:24:07-04:00
author: Ray Hollister
featured_image: /media/photos/2024-DeSantis-Budget-Announcement-01.webp
featured_image_alt: "Governor Ron DeSantis stands at a podium with a sign reading 'Focus on Florida's Future' during a press conference, with American and Florida state flags in the background."
featured_image_caption: "Governor Ron DeSantis announces his budget vetoes, including significant cuts to arts funding."
featured_image_attr: "Screenshot from video by Gov. Ron DeSantis's office"
description: "Explore the ramifications of Governor DeSantis's $32 million cuts to arts funding across Florida, with a close look at the crisis faced by theaters in Northeast Florida. Find out how you can support local cultural institutions."
---
Last month, Florida Governor Ron DeSantis’s veto of state arts funding sent shockwaves through the theater communities of Northeast Florida. The veto eliminated over $400,000 in funding earmarked for nine theater and opera companies in Duval, Clay, St. Johns and Nassau counties. A combined total of nearly $3.4 million had been requested by 45 arts organizations in these counties.
<!--more-->
Governor DeSantis's broad and unprecedented financial cuts to the arts -- totaling $32 million statewide -- have left many cultural institutions in a precarious position, scrambling to find alternative funding sources to keep their curtains raised. “[This was a cruel, crude and first-of-its-kind across-the-board gutting the governor didn't even try to justify](https://www.jacksonville.com/story/news/columns/nate-monroe/2024/06/21/desantis-selfishly-guts-florida-arts-and-culture-funds-commentary/74130880007/),” noted Florida Times-Union columnist Nate Monroe, highlighting the severe impact of these cuts.

In Duval County and its neighbors, the financial support from the state has traditionally played a crucial role in sustaining the operations of smaller, community-focused theaters. These funds help cover everything from production costs and staff salaries to educational programs and maintenance of historic venues. The sudden withdrawal of this funding threatens the very survival of these cultural hubs, but also threatens the economic health of the region.

“The state has an overall nine-to-one return on investment from these grants that generate hundreds of millions in tax revenue and fuel our local economy,” [State Senator-elect Carlos Guillermo Smith argued against the cuts](https://www.jacksonville.com/story/news/local/state/2024/06/13/desantis-veto-of-cultural-funding-will-dent-economy-critics-say/74083352007/). This economic contribution underscores the shortsightedness of the governor’s decision, given the significant financial and cultural returns generated by these organizations.

The repercussions for the theater community extend beyond financial distress. The cuts represent a blow to cultural access and development in a region that prides itself on a rich theatrical tradition. Local theaters not only entertain but educate and engage communities in cultural dialogue, playing a vital role in the cultural fabric of Northeast Florida.

For instance, [[theatre:The 5 & Dime]] Theatre in Jacksonville, known for its innovative and community-driven productions, is now faced with tough budgetary decisions that could affect its upcoming season. Bethany Paolini, managing artistic director, expressed concerns about how these cuts could limit their ability to purchase costumes and set pieces on a recent interview on [*First Coast Connect* on WJCT News 89.9](https://news.wjct.org/show/first-coast-connect/2024-06-25/first-coast-connect-arts-funding).

{{< youtube FCq_AFDeP08 >}}

Sherri Provence, executive director at [[theatre:Limelight Theatre]] in St. Augustine said, "Grants make up a third of our budget and it will dramatically affect our bottom line this year. What we are allowed to do, our programming, and it goes so much beyond programming for us in the arts -- it's about the people it affects."

While his organization may not be directly impacted this year, Brian Niece, executive director of [[theatre:Lumen Repertory Theatre]], offers a perspective that underscores a disturbing trend: "The governor's illogical, ignorant and hubristic act makes a major statement about the lack of belief in, and comprehension of, the importance of the arts from our elected leaders."

As the affected theaters in these counties grapple with the immediate financial shortfalls, there is a broader concern about the long-term impact on the cultural landscape of Northeast Florida. The loss of funding could lead to reduced programming and potentially the shuttering of some smaller theaters that cannot withstand the financial strain.

"We want the water to rise so all boats float higher and higher. We are concerned for the entities where emerging and future professionals can cut their teeth in the craft and develop a base of understanding and ability on which to grow. Professional theatre does not flourish well without a thriving network of surrounding educational and amateur community theatres," Niece said.

In the face of these challenges, the theater community remains resilient, with many organizations vowing to explore new funding avenues and collaborative efforts to offset the shortfall. However, the veto raises critical questions about the future of arts funding in Florida and the state’s recognition of the arts as a vital component of public life and economic health.

As JaxPlays and other advocates rally support, the hope is that this setback serves as a wake-up call for both the public and legislators about the indispensable value of the arts. The coming months will be crucial for the theater community to unite and advocate for restored and sustainable funding that reflects the true value of the arts in enriching lives and communities.

Now is the time to act for the arts. [Contact your state representatives](https://www.myfloridahouse.gov/FindYourRepresentative) and [write to the governor](https://www.flgov.com/email-the-governor/) to advocate for restoring arts funding. Meanwhile, support your favorite theaters by visiting [jaxplays.org/theatres](/theatres/), where we have added a "Donate" button for every theater that can accept donations.

The resilience of Northeast Florida's theater community is being tested, but together, we can write a different ending to this story. Support the arts, advocate for policy changes and help ensure a thriving cultural scene for generations to come.