---
title: Tony Hale to Share Insights on Comedy Career at Limelight Theatre Fundraiser
date: 2025-02-21T13:45:01-05:00
featured_image: /media/photos/Tony-Hale.webp
featured_image_attr: 
featured_image_caption: 
featured_image_alt: 
authors: 
- JaxPlays
description:
---
Emmy Award-winning actor Tony Hale is slated to discuss his illustrious career in comedy during a special event hosted by Limelight Theatre at the [[venue:Lewis Auditorium]] at Flager College on March 2 at 7 p.m.

Best known for his roles as the quirky Buster in *Arrested Development* and the beleaguered aide Gary Walsh in *Veep*, Hale has garnered a following across multiple generations. He is also beloved by younger audiences for his voice work as Forky in *Toy Story 4* and Fear in *Inside Out 2*. In addition, Hale has ventured into authorship with his children’s book [*Archibald’s Next Big Thing*](https://www.netflix.com/title/80221550), which has been adapted into a popular Netflix series.

[[theatre:Limelight Theatre]], now in its 33rd season, consistently delights audiences with a blend of at least three straight plays and five musicals each year. The theatre also runs an extensive educational program, offering courses and performance opportunities to both adults and children, which produces five additional shows per season. These programs are instrumental in fostering the talents of aspiring performers and technical staff, who gain invaluable experience and guidance for advancing in the arts.

The event, part of Limelight Theatre’s ongoing efforts to engage the community and support the arts, will also include a VIP after-party with drinks and dessert at Casa Monica, located across the street from the venue. VIP tickets are priced at $300 per person or $500 for two, which includes premium seating at the Lewis Auditorium event.

“This event not only celebrates Tony Hale's remarkable contributions to film and television but also underscores the vibrant arts scene in St. Augustine,” said Sherrie Provence, Executive Director of Limelight Theatre. “We are thrilled to offer this unique opportunity for fans and students alike.”

Tickets for the general public are available for $50, while students can attend for $15. Additionally, the first 200 Flagler College students will be granted free admission to promote accessibility for youths interested in the performing arts.

For tickets and more information, visit [limelight.ludus.com](https://limelight.ludus.com) or contact the Limelight Theatre box office at 1-904-825-1164.